---
layout: page
title: "Part II: Requirements Mining"
category: data
date: 2017-11-20 15:24:20
order: 2
---

### Chapter 3: Modeling Software Requirements
This chapter describes our requirements modeling approach and our specification
extraction mechanism. Requirements are provided in our system from multimodal
formats.

The ontologies for the static and dynamic view of software projects and the
aggregated ontology are given below:

- Static Ontology, available
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/ontologies/StaticOntology.owl">here</a>
  in OWL format and documented fully in 
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/deliverables/S-CASE_D3.1.pdf">deliverable D3.1</a>
  of S-CASE
- Dynamic Ontology, available
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/ontologies/DynamicOntology.owl">here</a>
  in OWL format and documented fully in 
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/deliverables/S-CASE_D3.2.pdf">deliverable D3.2</a>
  of S-CASE
- Linked Ontology, available
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/ontologies/LinkedOntology.owl">here</a>
  in OWL format and documented fully in 
  <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/deliverables/S-CASE_D3.2.pdf">deliverable D3.2</a>
  of S-CASE

We also constructed several tools for inserting software requirements. These are provided
in the following list, distinguished according to the type of input:

- Functional Requirements: 
  - Requirements Editor: an Eclipse plugin that can be used to insert and edit requirements.
    It supports importing and exporting requirements in RQS and ANN formats. The repository
    is available <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/s-case/requirements-editor">here</a>,
    while the tool can be installed as part of <a target="_blank" href="http://s-case.github.io/">S-CASE</a>.
  - Requirements Annotation Tool: a web application that can be used to insert and edit functional
    requirements in ANN format. The source code of the tool is available
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/s-case/requirements-annotation-tool">here</a>,
    while an online running version can be found
    <a target="_blank" href="http://rat.ee.auth.gr/">here</a>.
  - NLP Server: a semantic parsing module that allows automatically annotating functional
    requirements. The source code of the module is available
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/s-case/nlp-server">here</a>,
    while the service is operational and accepts REST requests at the address
    <code>http://rat.ee.auth.gr:8010/nlpserver/</code>. 
    The service is also integrated with the Requirements Editor and the Requirements Annotation
    Tool, as these tools issue requests to automatically annotate requirements.
    The dataset used to train the module is available
    <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/datasets/nlpserver_dataset.zip">here</a>.

- Graphical Storyboards: 
  - Storyboard Creator: an Eclipse plugin that can be used to insert and edit storyboards.
    The repository is available 
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/s-case/storyboard-creator">here</a>,
    while the tool can be installed as part of 
    <a target="_blank" href="http://s-case.github.io/">S-CASE</a>.

- UML Diagrams: 
  - Supported via the tools of <a target="_blank" href="http://s-case.github.io/">S-CASE</a>, that 
    allows importing Use Case diagrams and Activity diagrams in XMI format (the files follow the 
    format of the <a target="_blank" href="https://eclipse.org/papyrus/">Papyrus UML tool</a>).

Finally, the chapter includes a requirements-to-specifications case study. The case study
involves project Restmarks, a service that allows users to store and retrieve online their
bookmarks, share them with other users and search for bookmarks by using tags.
The functional requirements of the project are available 
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/reqs2specscasestudy/Requirements.rqs">here</a>,
while the storyboards are available
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/reqs2specscasestudy/Storyboards.zip">here</a>.
The system specifications are provided as a YAML file, available
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/reqs2specscasestudy/Restmarks.yaml">here</a>.


### Chapter 4: Mining Software Requirements
This chapter describes our mining approaches for functional requirements and UML models. 
Concerning functional requirements, the annotated requirements dataset used for evaluating our methodology is available
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/datasets/FunctionalRequirements.zip">here</a>.
The dataset is in RQS format, so it can be processed using the Requirements Editor 
introduced in the previous chapter.

Concerning UML models, the annotated UML diagrams
used for evaluating our methodology include use case diagrams, available
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/datasets/UseCaseDiagrams.zip">here</a>,
and activity diagrams, available
<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/datasets/ActivityDiagrams.zip">here</a>.
The models are in XMI format, and they can be read using the <a target="_blank" href="https://eclipse.org/papyrus/">Papyrus UML tool</a>).

A full description of our mining methodology can also be found in <a target="_blank" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/data/parttwo/deliverables/S-CASE_D2.4.pdf">deliverable D2.4</a> of S-CASE.

